# programming
## 1. Introduction
ABM1-ABM9
This code base contains the source code for ABM1-ABM9.
Agent-Based Model (ABM) is a computer model for studying the behavior of a system generated by a set of agents in a specific environment. Usually, ABM consists of three parts: agent, environment and rules. Agents interact and act in the environment according to the rules, thus simulating the behavior of the whole system. This code repository contains a number of programs based on ABM techniques, developed by the authors in the course of learning ABM. The programs range from easy to hard, from easy to deep, and include a brief introduction to containers, branches, loops, functions, classes, modules, exception handling, GUIs, and web applications. The programs are extensible, and users can add custom behaviors and rules to suit their needs. Before running the model, make sure you have the Python environment and all necessary libraries installed.

## 2.Installing dependencies
- Python 3.x
- NumPy
- Matplotlib
- pandas
## 3.Brief description of each abm
- abm1:Calculate the Euclidean distance
- abm2:Using Loops to make a list and plot each element as a point 
- abm3:caltuate time difference to generate agents and move the point and  write the formula to calculate the distance plural, median, mean, and standard deviation
- abm4: using Agent class to make point 
- abm5: Read in data from outside and draw
- abm6:Input and output and define functions in terms of classes
- abm7:Short completion instructions with integrated functions
- abm8:creat GUI
- abm9:Add animation function 

## 4.Using
To run each abm, navigate to the program's directory in the terminal and run it, following the detailed instructions
## 5.Customization
If you want to change some parameters in the simulation or add new features, please open and download each abm locally and modify the relevant code.
## 6.References
Please refer to the following literature for more information on the ABM4 model:
Wilensky, U. (1999). NetLogo.
Epstein, J. M., & Axtell, R. (1996). Growing artificial societies: Social science from the bottom up.
## 7.Contribution
Contributions to the project are welcome. If you find any problems or bugs, please submit an issue on the Issues page. If you want to add a new feature or improve an existing one, please submit a pull request.
## 8.Author
YangSK yangsk0216@gmail.com
## 9.License
This project is licensed under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for details.

